# Keda module

## What is KEDA

Kubernetes-based Event Driven Autoscaler [(KEDA)](https://keda.sh/) is an autoscaler that allows you to easily scale your Kubernetes-based resources. You can scale your applications on the basis of the data of your choice.

Keda supports a great number of scalers that help you manage your deployments. For the complete list, check the KEDA [Scalers](https://keda.sh/docs/scalers/) documentation.

For more information about KEDA features, see [KEDA documentation](https://keda.sh/docs).

## Keda module

Keda module is an extension to Kyma that allows you to install and manage KEDA on your Kubernetes cluster, using Keda Manager.
To learn how to easily install your Keda module, visit the [Install Keda module from the latest release](../contributor/01-10-installation.md#install-keda-module-from-the-latest-release) section.

## Keda Manager

Keda Manager helps you to install and manage KEDA on your cluster. It manages the lifecycle of KEDA based on the dedicated Keda custom resource (CR).

## Install Keda module from the latest release

### Prerequisites

- Access to a Kubernetes (v1.24 or higher) cluster
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

### Procedure

1. Clone the project and open the `keda-manager` folder.

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/kyma-project/keda-manager.git && cd keda-manager/
   ```
2. To install the Keda module, you must install Keda Manager first. Apply the following script:

   ```bash
   kubectl create ns kyma-system
   kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kyma-project/keda-manager/releases/latest/download/keda-manager.yaml
   ```

3. To get KEDA installed, apply the sample Keda CR:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f config/samples/operator_v1alpha1_keda.yaml
   ```
   You should get a result similar to this example:

   ```bash
   keda.operator.kyma-project.io/default created
   ```

## Useful links
- [KEDA configuration](01-20-configuration.md) - provides exemplary configuation of the KEDA components.
- [Keda module footprint](04-10-footprint.md) - describes the footprint generated by the Keda module.
- [KEDA demo application](04-20-demo-application.md) - shows how to scale the Kubernetes workloads using KEDA API.

For the developer guides, see:
- [Install Keda Manager](../contributor/01-10-installation.md) - describes the advanced installation options.
- [Extend user interface (UI)](../contributor/01-20-extend-ui.md) - describes how to configure a dedicated UI for your CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) using Kyma Dashboard. 
- [Use Keda Manager to manage KEDA](../contributor/02-10-management.md) - describes how you can manage your KEDA instance using Keda Manager.

For troubleshooting, see:
- [Scripts don't work](../contributor/03-10-scripts-not-working.md)